Regarding your question, My Duyen, you were born in
2002.
My niece is currently an intern
at a company in Hai Phong. She
has four siblings; her older brother is married
and can't provide much financial support for her parents. She is the
second child, with two younger siblings,
aged 10 and 4.
Sometimes she feels pressured because
she is the hope of her family. She
feels hesitant, standing between two
paths: One is to graduate, get a job, and
take care of her parents and younger siblings so they
have someone to rely on when they grow up, because in about
15 years her parents might be too weak to
work anymore, and she'll be stuck there.
The other is to leave home and abandon her family. She
feels afraid that even if she leaves
home, her heart will still be preoccupied with worries about her
family. She is very scared. She asks for
advice on
how to think clearly and find peace of mind. This is a
very good question, and it reflects the
concerns of many people,
doesn't it? Many young people feel the
same way. (This is a connecting message.)  With the
sharing just now, I'm talking about
Thai Binh ice cream, which is usually very interesting. The
news is that in the questions today, there's this: "
Yes, my nephew is getting married, but he can't
support his parents financially much.
So what makes you think you'll be different from your nephew?" "Is
n't that right, nephew?
Why can't you support them? Because
you still depend on your wife, you
depend on your children. You have to take care of your
wife, you have to take care of your children. Now, what about
you? Are
you getting married? Getting married to take care of your
parents is already difficult, isn't it, nephew?
Or are you staying like this to take care
of your parents and siblings?
Can you do that, brother? And your parents are
n't happy about you
doing that. You're not old enough to get married yet. They're urging you to get
married, saying it's better than
bringing shame to the family, saying 'my family doesn't marry off our children.' I'll take care
of my
work, my two children, I'll control the country.
Go get married so I can have some peace of mind.
You're just going to stay single like this, aren't you?" That's
exactly what a mother would say.
Otherwise, the whole mother would...  Isn't
that right? I didn't borrow you at home either. No one
wants to marry you. Now you're
taking your wife and saying you're taking care of your siblings.
Why don't you go get married? Now you're
asking me to get married? I'll take care of my child, I'll take care of her, I'll take care of her, can't you?
You're so lucky to go out and ease the burden on your child.
So before now, everyone in the village and neighborhood has been
talking about being single, right? It's all true, isn't it? It's all true, isn't it? My
daughter refuses to get married,
she doesn't know anything about Buddhism, so I have to
say this, there's nothing to it. I do
n't know how you're taking care of your siblings, but I
still have to work day and night, but every
day when I come home, the
villagers and neighbors stare at my bed, they
keep asking me, "What's that girl like?
Who's going to take her away?" "Go check if she's okay."
Two days ago, they were asking when she'd get married, right? It's really
crazy. And
now, what about you? People in
the neighborhood are saying, "Maybe that girl is from
Hong Kong, who's going to take her?" "That
girl whose parents don't even know if she'll pay for it?" "Your
parents are also..."  It's very upsetting, is
n't it? So, the
connection between those
stories is that we don't understand ourselves, we
only understand our real circumstances, worrying about
things that aren't worth worrying about because we don't
understand things clearly. That's how it is, right?
So,
don't assume that you will be the one to take care
of the family unless you
agree with your parents that you won't get married
because you think it's okay, and your parents will retire, so you
decide to stay and raise them. You
were born in 2002, so this year you're
20, in 15 you'll be 30, in 15 you'll be
35. Your parents won't be working anymore,
so you'll start taking over from the age of 35
onwards. Of course, you
won't get married now, right? But
if you do get married, you'll have to take over
two children. You don't know how your husband is doing, you don't know him, you
don't know your children, you don't know if they can
play around, and you might not know what your parents are doing. At
what point will your parents still have to
worry about you?  It's better to die, right? It's not good to be so naughty. I
don't know who's taking care of whom, do I? I don't
know who's telling whom, the color is too much. My
granddaughter is now my grandson, the
maternal grandmother is the one who takes care of the grandchild, the paternal grandmother does very little,
right?
Let me just say, when a man gets married,
the house has more people but no more work, but when a
man gets married, the house has fewer people but more work, right? When a man gets married, the house has fewer people
but less work, right? When a
woman gets
married, the house has fewer people and less work, right? Which opera is it?
Which mothers
participate to see if it's right? When a daughter gets
married, she loses people and has more work, but when a son gets married, he has more people and
less work, but that's the case with a
daughter-in-law who lets her go, not a daughter-in-law.
Okay, you have to bear with it. Phung Giac, you
sit for me, right?
We haven't said anything yet,
right? I see your leg up, we
have to face the truth of life.
Yes, I... And if you become a monk, then what?
Your family's medicine
will increase on its own. Your family's blessings will increase on their own. Your
brothers and sisters will do it themselves.
Transforming all the monks at Ba Vang Pagoda,
like me, after becoming a monk,
my family is always better off. I
mean, before I left, I naturally accumulated more
karma. My grandmother told me that there's a benefit: people value you, they gravitate towards you, meaning they gravitate towards the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha). This
merit keeps increasing, right? In my heart, I tell people to just remember that when my child misbehaves, they naturally remember the other person, and the family's merit increases. Don't
worry too much, don't worry at all.
My younger siblings will succeed,
my older siblings will transform themselves.
Of course, if I keep going, the
family's merit increases a
lot compared to the family's existing karma.
People keep gravitating towards the child, towards the
Three Jewels, and
then they say, "I don't know,
today there's a storm, I don't know
which forest my child went into." I wonder how the monks are doing?
If I've asked for merit, have I,
right? Of course, I've asked for merit,
so it's a source of merit for the family.
Don't worry, brother, don't be afraid of
anything, everything is fine. Don't worry, Duyen, you're not
worried, right? Just keep moving forward
on your path, that's the
source of blessings for your family, don't worry, that's what
you call fulfilling the word "filial piety."
[Music]
Yes,yes.